well as we've been saying Anthony
blinkin is in Israel right now for more
talks after he has been discussing the
Gaza war with regional leaders in the
Middle East Alan Fischer has more on
that now for us from West
Jerusalem for the moment it's an Escape
Route with no Escape From First Light
they gathered at the Rafa crossing the
only way out of Gaza the way remains
blocked no agreement to open the route
no ceasefire in the area despite
pressure from the Americans and with no
way out there's no way in for food water
and other humanitarian
supplies on our way to the crossing they
shelled Rafa Street and we started
screaming we came to the crossing and
thought it was safe nowhere is safe in
Gaza wherever we go they're shelling
crying screaming blood seriously we
don't know what we should do we're
coming to the crossing knowing that they
won't open
it in Gaza the scars of War are obvious
open and raw another night of heavy
bombardment has increased the number of
dead
there officials estimate a thousand more
may be trapped under the rubble many
already dead some unable to be saved who
will be dead
soon in the North of Israel there's an
evacuation underway there too after days
of Tit for Tat exchanges between
Hezbollah and the Israeli Army the
country's War cabinet approving the
movement of everyone in 28 communities
within 2 km of the border with Lebanon
the exchanges have been Limited in scope
but still lethal Israel says Iran is
pushing the confrontations a charge
denied in tan and the Israeli Army
warned Hezbollah about exploiting the
situation Hezbollah has executed a
number of attacks in order to divert our
operational efforts from the south under
Iranian instruction and
support US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin is back in Israel after touring
several Arab capitals taking the
temperature there but there's little to
show for his diplomacy efforts no
humanitarian Corridor no ceasefire and
no sign of an immediate end to the
fighting Alan Fischer AL jazer West
Jerusalem well let's bring in Maran
bashara he's Al jaz's senior political
analyst he joins us now via Skype from
London Maan let me start by asking you
for your assessment of the success of
Lincoln's trip it it does feel like
there's been a shift if only a marginal
one in US rhetoric as as well as us
media
coverage well of course the first
question is uh in that sense success for
whom if it's success for American
diplomacy I think on the face of it it
wasn't easy uh his mission was quite
difficult because uh according to the
sort of American guidelines his
president's guidelines he was supposed
to do a number of things that are almost
impossible one he supposed to support
unconditionally Israel's basically
genocidal war against Gaza two he was
supposed to block anyone in the region
from even daring to interfere or provoke
Israel as it's waging its war three he's
going to Shield Israel basically from
all criticism and bring about
condemnation by Israel's partners and
not so much Partners in the Middle East
four or five he wants to make sure that
Arabs are going to help him
uh with Hamas to release as many
captives as possible without offering
anything in return that's also not easy
and then he wanted also the Arabs help
in order to create socalled humanitarian
Corridor which is sort of an orwellian
way of saying ethnic cleansing of the
Palestinians that certainly wasn't
didn't work well for him so it was
really a difficult Mission it within the
guidelines of the president or the White
House's policy but he tried and as much
as possible to get some sort of an
agreement you know uh for the Arabs to
tone down their criticism to talk about
the humanitarian crisis without
necessarily going all the way in you
know condemning Israel their their
foreign relation their foreign ministers
statement was basically watered down to
sort of condemning the attacks of both
sides which is new but otherwise no it
wasn't that much of a you know great
success Maran we've heard lots of
speculation now about Biden potentially
following do you expect that to happen
and could that potentially delay an
Israeli ground
invasion you know I don't know I have
this feeling right that since we've
heard about the emminent uh land
Invasion it didn't exactly happen this
whole 24-hour notice to the Palestinians
or 1 million of them to sort of move
South and you'd expect something to
happen afterwards so analytically
speaking I am not sure if it's which is
the two scenarios there is scenario
number one is that the Israelis weren't
ready and all their rhetoric was just
you know hot hot talk about imminent
invasion they were still preparing
themselves because what's coming is
going to be incredibly difficult
militarily speaking this Urban Warfare
you know amongst a population of 2
million people so they're still
preparing they're still kind of going
through all the POS scenarios and so on
the second possibility is that things
are really getting complicated they just
didn't realize how complicated it is or
perhaps after some intelligence that
Hamas is pretty much prepared and that
probably Iran Hezbollah might actually
be serious if there is a land Invasion
and there's a tragedy in in Gaza that
maybe it's going to get really worse and
Biden is kind of sending mix signal
about occupation or not occupying moving
in but not all the way so I think there
is possibility of that or the other I
more in tune with the possibility that
they are still working on their military
scenarios and in the meantime it's
possible that Biden might show up in
order to once again Express uh his
support for Israel's right to defend
itself probably without mentioning much
about the Palestinians right to protect
themselves Maran given all the the
shifting Dynamics and some of the
shifting rhetoric here what's your sense
then of the information sharing that's
actually going on between Israel and the
White House at the moment does
Washington actually have oversight of
what's being
planned I tell you just judging from uh
Biden's pre-recorded interview that uh
was aired on Sunday but was in fact uh
done on Thursday is that the white house
does not have a clue what Israel is up
to or what is the end game for its war
in Gaza and that's why he seems to
advise even warn publically on the most
watched program on American television
60 minutes that the occupation or
reoccupation of Gaza would be in his
words a big mistake what in other words
he doesn't know exactly what Israelis
are up to and he's just preempting the
possibility that they might actually be
contemplating the fantasy that he could
just reoccupy Gaza you know forever that
this would be a big mistake so my sense
is America is giving an unconditional
support to Israel but on the other hand
it is not getting sort of a seat on the
table if you will in Israel's war
cabinet to actually you know advise and
guide being you know the superpower with
already having you know two uh Regional
wars in Afghanistan Iraq and having so
much at stake having sent two Naval
Strike forces to the east Mediterranean
but it seems it doesn't have that much
Maan Bashar there alzer's senior
political analyst always great to talk
to you Maan thanks for joining us